In the process of assessing and running the code from previous student projects, we encountered various challenges. The primary issues included outdated dependencies, lack of maintenance, difficult integration, and inconsistent code quality. Before attempting to use the code from the five previous projects, we followed a structured approach. We graded each project according to the rubric provided. This rubric aimed to evaluate the quality and completeness of each project. It covered aspects such as code organization, documentation, adherence to coding standards, and the overall usability of the codebase. Grading these projects allowed us to assess their readiness for reuse and identify areas that required improvement. After reviewing we tried running the five projects and encountered various challenges.  

 

Outdated dependencies were the major issue for all the projects that we have tried to run. The packages and libraries were not updated for many years. This caused us an issue with current environment compatibility and made the projects prone to security threats. It took us a lot of time and effort to update the latest versions and find these deprecated dependencies. These updates gave few unwanted conflicts with other components too. The entire process hindered the progress of our project. Finally, we understood that there is a need for management of dependencies and having constant updates for easier maintenance of projects. We could not get the amazon RDS (AWS IAM) credentials for a project to access a database. We contacted the project manager but did not get any response back. Due to this, we were not able to run the project and chose to go with another project. We realized the value of remaining accessible at the e-mail address that we provide in the documentation so that future developers can contact us if they encounter any difficulties while working on the project. 

 

The projects that we have worked on have not been updated regularly. There were a lot of bugs to resolve, many software updates to do, patch errors to correct for security reasons, so that the software project would run smoothly. As there is no required resource management, the software is unresponsive and clumsy to work with. So, we aim to do regular maintenance, bug fixing sessions, automated testing, and better documentation. 

 

We had to downgrade a few versions of software to overcome outdated dependencies. We did this first by identifying which dependencies are outdated, reviewing all the libraries, frameworks, and components used in our project and comparing their versions to the latest releases. We then prioritized dependencies that are crucial for our project’s stability and functionality like the security-related updated, major bug fixes and few crucial feature enhancements. We also had to check for compatibility every time we updated a dependency so that it does not affect other parts of our project. We also made sure to not update all the dependencies at once and instead update them incrementally, starting with one or a few dependencies at a time, making it easier to identify and fix issues as they arise. We understood the importance of maintaining clear versioning, release notes and updating documentation to reflect the changes in dependencies for our projects in future, so that the current and future developers would understand the evolution of the code and any breaking changes. This will also make it easier for others to find stable releases.  

 

While trying to integrate multiple resources together in the projects, there were issues with components interacting with each other. The code structure for a project is unclear, making it complex for us to find many functions. In the project titled G.I.T.S2.1-I.R.I.S, we were not able to run this project on Windows directly. We had to install WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux) which is a compatibility layer for running a Linux environment directly on a Windows System. By using compatibility tools like WSL, many new issues may arise. These tools make Linux and Windows work together, but they can cause unexpected issues because Linux and Windows behave differently. To make sure the software works the same on both, we will need to put in extra effort.  

 

While working on our finalized project which is “SimplyClip.” The functionality for “Summarizer” is not working and the icon is also not functional. While clicking on that icon to summarize the copied text, it will get summarized and downloaded in the document or excel sheet. So, we will work on that part and modify the project in a better way for our next project. This is the only issue in the project. We couldn't find any clear test cases, and the ones they did mention didn't explain what to expect. Our plan is to carefully write down our own test cases and use them to make sure our application works well. We are aiming to create a better maintained repository and codes that are written better with timely software updates that will give the users better experience in running and accessing the project. 
